>> Speaker 1: We've been talking about
functions in the compilation phase,
adding their identifier as a colored
marble in the enclosing scope.
In this example,
we have a function teacher on line one,
what color marble is teacher gonna be?
>> Speaker 2: Red.
>> Speaker 1: Red, okay.
But let's look at line three because
line looks a little bit different.
And line three might look a little bit
more like some of the functions that
you've seen more commonly.
It's maybe a little less common to see
the old school function decoration,
although I strongly prefer function
decorations just for the record.
But most people seem to like these
days to declare variables and
assign functions to them and usually they
even use a constant instead of a var.
So that might look a little bit
like what you've seen recently.
So what's happening there and
is it any different than what's
happening with line one?
Well, remember, there is a difference
between what can happen at compile time
and what can happen at execution time.
So, we do know that an identifier called
myTeacher is going to be created and
what color marble is it gonna be?
>> Speaker 2: Red.
>> Speaker 1: It's gonna be red.
We do know that there's a function
called anotherTeacher there, so
we need to create a bucket for
it at least.
We need to make a blue bucket.
But because that function
is not a declaration,
we're not gonna handle its
marble color in the same way.
The key difference here is that
the anotherTeacher identifier,
the one right here on line three, that
identifier is going to end up as a marble
at compile time but it's gonna be a
different colored marble than you expect.
It's not a red marble, it's a blue marble.
So there is a key difference here.
This is called a function expression
as opposed to what line one is,
is called a function declaration.
And one of the key differences, and
we'll see more throughout the course but
one of the key differences
between function declarations and
function expressions, is that
function declarations and their name,
they attach their marble to the enclosing
scope, so we make a red marble on line one
whereas function expressions will
add their marble to their own scope.
>> Speaker 1: So the blue scope is where
the blue marble anotherTeacher ends up.
>> Speaker 1: That's why on line four,
we can reference in anotherTeacher because
there is in fact a blue
marble called anotherTeacher.
But down on line nine,
there is no anotherTeacher, is there?
When we're out in the global scope and
we asked global scope you ever heard of
this red marble, it's gonna say nope,
never heard of that red marble and what
we're gonna get there, reference error.
So key difference, function expressions,
put there identify your
into their own scope.
There's a little nuance.
Let me get to that question in a moment.
There's a little, also, additional
nuance which is not only does that blue
marble show up in the blue scope but
it's also read only.
You cannot reassign
anotherTeacher on line four.
You could not reassign
it to some other value.
You have a question, yes?
>> Speaker 2: Why would you do this?
Why would you actually have the named
function on the right side of
that expression?
>> Speaker 1: You've probably more often
seen it as an anonymous function there,
and we're about to discuss the difference
between what are so-called named function
expressions, and the more common
anonymous function expression.
Okay, so
we'll get into that in just a moment.
So great segue, let's talk about
named function expressions.
What is a named function expression?
We're super creative,
that means a function expression
that's been given a name, okay?
So let's look at these two.
Line one,
I'm declaring a function expression.
Why is it a function expression?
>> Speaker 2: It's assigned to a variable?
>> Speaker 1: Because it's
not a function declaration,
how do we know if something's
a function declaration
if the word function is literally
the first thing in the statement?
So if it's not the first thing in
the statement, if there's a variable or
an operator or parentheses or anything,
then it's not a declaration, it is?
>> Speaker 2: An expression.
>> Speaker 1: An expression, so
on line one, we see a function expression,
but we see no name.
So that's called a anonymous
function expression,
whereas the one on line five is
a named function expression.
So setting aside the difference
between function expressions and
declarations for a moment.
Here, I just wanna focus our
attention to the difference between
anonymous function expressions and
named function expressions.
And what I'm gonna claim is that
even though anonymous function
expressions are vastly more common,
vastly more popular In fact,
most of you have maybe never even
seen a named function expression.
And that's how uncommon and
unpopular it is.
I'm going to make the claim that you
should always, 100%, zero exception.
I don't make very many statements
that are that absolute, 100%,
zero exceptions, you should prefer
the named function expression,
over the anonymous function expression.